---
title: "Learning curves with pandoc"
date: "Friday, 30 September, 2022"
tags: ["unix", "pandoc", "trisquel", "json", "blog-engine"]
...

I'm starting this post as mostly a method of venting, since I have spent the better part of my work over the last couple of days struggling with the documentation of [pandoc](https://pandoc.org/) (I should note the fault is likely my own). 

This originally started when I had been unable to get my partials to display when converting my markdown entries using my template. I had been following all of the styles shown on pandoc's documentation, from `${nav()}` to `${ nav() }` to `${ nav() }$` to `${ nav.tpl() }$` and nothing had worked. I can chalk that up to the pandoc that is in [trisquel's](https://trisquel.info) repositories (nothing against the folks at trisquel, I understand how difficult distro management can be when your goal is to remove all proprietary code from another distro whose team is much larger). So I did install the most recent version of pandoc which did resolve this portion of it.

The next part is one that I didn't quite understand when I had read it. Specifically, this part: 

> Templates contain variables, which allow for the inclusion of arbitrary information at any point in the file. They may be set at the command line using the -V/--variable option. If a variable is not set, pandoc will look for the key in the document’s metadata, which can be set using either YAML metadata blocks or with the -M/--metadata option.

I could't quite tell from the wording, but I had taken this to mean that you could just set an empty set for the partial's variable (in my case, `sidebar`). In actuality, it seems that you can set any variable you want in the metadata, whether or not you reference that data at all. Originally, I left the set empty, which did not work, so I yanked and pasted a line from the `"nav"` section to test, and my placeholder text showed up! After making my intentions more explicit: 
   
~~~json
{
  "nav": [
    {"label": "home", "href": "../../index.html" },
    {"label": "blog", "href": "../index.html" }
  ],
  "sidebar": [
    {"placeholder"}
  ]
}
~~~

Forgive the awful URLs as I do a lot of testing offline, and I do fix these before uploading. I just like navigating around to get a feel for the site.

Anyway, it was definitely a frustrating bit of time trying to come to grips with this, and as impatient as I can get due to how little time I do actually get to sit down and code, it's a great lesson to be petient with the proper documentation. As much websearching as I did to find the problem, this specific one did not show up at all, whether due to nobody else trying to do exactly what I was doing, or my inability to [rtfm](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/rtfm).

[This](https://rsdoiel.github.io/blog/2020/11/09/Pandoc-Partials.html) was a great resource when tackling this problem, and was the reason I realized what I was initially doing wrong when failing to specify the metadata file, which greatly reduced my time to actually fix the issue. So, thanks! 

And thanks again to you for reading about my short-sighted misadventures.
