---
title: "Recovery and two lessons"
date: "2023 Feb 21"
datetime: "2023-02-21T19:12:11-08:00"
tags: ["bash scripting", "conky", "programming"]
...

Well, it has been a long time and I'm just going to jump right into it without my normal lengthy setup. 

In January, I had to have a last-minute gall bladder removal (cholocystectomy). I started in with a pain while on a quick overnight trip to Leavenworth to give my daughter at least one last day of playing in the snow. I woke up at 2am Friday morning with what felt like a really bad case of heartburn which slightly improved by being upright. After driving home from Leavenworth, two trips to separate urgent care clinics, and a specialist visit, it was determined I need to have my gall bladder out. Although my case was urgent and needed addressing, it wasn't immediately life-threatening which meant I could have a cheaper elective surgery in a facility in Kirkland. So, after a full week of constant pain, it was finally over, replaced by a much more temporary pain which I only needed to wait to pass.

So that's what I've been the majority of 2023: unable to lift a 2.5 year old and dropping to my knees every time I have to cough or sneeze. Now onto the two things I learned the hard way over the last day.

So I have some scripts for a conky panel which features some information about the computer I'm currently using, augmented with some information about my current imprecise location as well as the weather. I had switched from using [openweathermap.com](openweathermap.com) to [wttr.in](wttr.in) for my weather info and wrapped it all up in a [script](https://github.com/dzpwl/doot/blob/laptop/.config/scripts/weather_updated) since my weather info is separated into one bit of info per line to reduce the amount of curl commands I would use. Well at some point yesterday, wttr had broken, appearing to have surpassed a monthly limit of queries. In the script, I had never assumed that the service at wttr might not always work, so when it broke, it broke in a very [r/softwaregore](https://reddit.com/r/softwaregore) kind of way. All of the anticipated fields were still displayed, and instead of having a delimiter-separated string of data, I was given an unsightly error which was being displayed spectacularly in my temperature line, with all the following pieces of information conspicuously blank. 

So I made two changes to the script, with my new appreciation for error-handling design; firstly, check the status code of the service I would like to query; and secondly, which was particular to the issue with wttr, if it returns a [200 OK](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/200), figure out whether or not there is still an issue.

I would obviously have to have a plan for what would happen in these eventualities (since yes, they will rarely but assuredly be unreachable at some point). The first was done easily with, aside from function declaration and closing bracket, a single line of code. The second was a bit trickier, and at the moment of publishing of this post the script on my github is not the final code. What I had initially done was rely on another expected behavior; in this instance, the fact that an issue with wttr's service while still showing a 200 OK on a status check will return a string beginning with "Unknown". After the quick fix, it dawned on me that this was the same thing I had been doing in the first place, just wearing a bit of a different hat. So the final fix to this version of the script will check that the information I am expecting is in the expected format; anything else will result in the script essentially noping out and returning nothing. In the case of my conky panel, It certainly looks better to have no weather info at all rather than a bunch of unpopulated fields. 

The second lesson, which I learned this morning came as a great opportunity to learn a little bit more about git. I had notice on my laptop that for some reason my [dotfile repository](https://github.com/dzpwl/doot) was missing the branch I had created for my desktop. In the process of trying to pull (slight foreshadowing) a copy onto my laptop, I made the mistake of using `git pull` instead of `git fetch` and accidentally merged most of my files. I was able to revert all of the changes mostly painlessly, as after fetching the branch I could just `git checkout` all of the files I wanted updated anyway, and what was left was just what should be local copies of files. I've mostly gone through to remove any files I would reasonably assume to be tinkered with (namely, `.bashrc`, `.jwmrc`, and `alacritty.yml`) which makes it easier to switch between branches anyway since I don't get all the warnings about having different copies of the same file that are going to be replaced when using `git checkout {branch}`. 

Anyway, it was certainly an insightful 24 hours, and I'm certainly better for having gone through these issues firsthand since now I can have these things in my mind from the beginning when I start to write. I hope this wasn't too much to read, and thanks for sticking with me if you've made it this far. It's a blog about newbie hobbyist coding problems anyway, it's not exactly the most riveting material.
